Speaker infra (+ 2 little changes in president) (#12)
ezgimez/SOMAS-Final-Report: 05_iigo/index.tex

The client-server division gives agents the freedom to implement the IIGO role functions as they like, provided that they follow the specified interface. Some agents may choose to obey the rules to ensure that the IIGO role inspecting their actions will never find any wrongdoing. When implementing their President, Speaker and Judge functions, islands can either follow a rule-obeying approach or try to exploit their power once they are elected to be an IIGO role. For example, the President gets access to the reported amounts of private pool resources from all the islands and therefore, can use this confidential information for its own benefit in foraging or gifting.

\subsubsection{Server-side Overview}

> The server implementation of each branch provides the IIGO roles with the framework to use their powers of carrying out the law in the archipelago. The server is responsible for the vast majority of data processing and acts as a bridge between the IIGO roles and the other agents. For example, the President decides on the tax distribution for the given turn, and the server converts this information into communication messages and broadcasts them to the islands. This ensures that the backend 'logistics' of the game, such as the format of messages passed between islands, remain the same between different implementations of each IIGO role. It also reduces the complexity of agents and minimizes the amount of work for each of the team implementing their agents.

Reviewer: again...
minimises ---> minimizes.. 
doesn't matter :D but let's go your way

    \end{itemize}
\item Transfer-of-power functions:
    \begin{itemize}
        \item \texttt{PaySpeaker} implements the power of the President to pay the Speaker its salary. 
        \item \texttt{CallSpeakerElection} implements the power of the President to initiate the transfer-of-power for the Speaker

>         \item \texttt{DecideNextSpeaker} allows the President to modify the outcome of the election and choose not to follow its obligation (if Rule "TODO WHEN MY PR IS MERGED" is in play) to announce the result of Speaker election.

Reviewer: plz change this later :)

    \item The outcome of the action, or lack thereof, is passed to the members of the archipelago.
\end{enumerate}

\subsection{Legislative Branch}
Similarly to the president the Speaker also has client-side functions which directly map to the Speaker powers described in \ref{sec:legislative}, as well as server-side functions which not only facilitate the implementation of these powers but also handle other functionality, such as the logging needed for monitoring and withdrawal of costs associated with the power.

\subsubsection{Client-side}
The legislative branch functions can be divided into two categories:
\begin{enumerate}
\item Speaker power functions:
    \begin{itemize}
        \item \texttt{DecideAgenda} does not directly map to a power of the speaker, but it does aid the agents with keeping track of the rule propagated through the legislative branch functions. By changing the rule given to the agent in \texttt{DecideAgenda}, which is the same rule returned by the President in \texttt{PickRuleToVote}, they can alter the rule passed to them in \texttt{DecideVote} and \texttt{DecideAnnouncement}.

>         \item \texttt{DecideVote} enables the institutional power of calling a vote and deciding the participating islands. The information passed to the Speaker is the current rule in the agenda (as returned by \texttt{DecideAgenda}) and a list of all the alive island IDs. The Speaker returns the same type of information along with a boolean indicating whether the agent has chosen to act on this power. The rule returned by the Speaker is the rule that is passed to agents returned by the Speaker if a vote is to be conducted as indicated by the boolean returned by the Speaker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item \texttt{DecideVote} enables the institutional power of calling a vote and deciding which islands participate to this engagement. The information passed to the Speaker is the current rule in the agenda (as returned by \texttt{DecideAgenda}) and a list of all the alive island IDs. The Speaker returns the same type of information along with a boolean indicating whether the agent has chosen to act on this power. The rule returned by the Speaker is the rule that is passed to agents returned by the Speaker if a vote is to be conducted as indicated by the boolean returned by the Speaker.
```

>         \item \texttt{DecideAnnouncement} enables the institutional power of declaring a result of a vote on rules. The information passed to the Speaker is the current rule in the agenda (as returned by \texttt{DecideAgenda}) and the result of the vote held. The Speaker returns the same type of information along with a boolean indicating whether the agent has chosen to act on this power. The rule returned by the Speaker along with the result returned by the Speaker is the information that is processed by the server and broadcasted to all the agents if the agent has chosen to make a declaration as indicated by the boolean returned by the Speaker.

Reviewer: result of a vote on rules/??
 can you revise this plz , not very understandable

    \end{itemize}
\item The accountability cycle and transfer-of-power functions:
    \begin{itemize}
        \item \texttt{PaySpeaker} implements the power of the Speaker to pay the Judge its salary. 

>         \item \texttt{CallJudgeElection} implements the power of the Speaker to call an election for the transfer-of-power for the Judge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item \texttt{CallJudgeElection} implements the power of the Speaker to call an election for the transfer-of-power for the Judge.
```

>         \item \texttt{DecideNextJudge} allows the Speaker to modify the outcome of the election, if one is called, and choose not to follow its obligation (if Rule "TODO WHEN PR 4 IS MERGED" is in play) to announce the result of Judge election.

Reviewer: can you change is TODO plz

Reviewer: reference rule properly plz..
`Rule~\ref{rule:XX}` or smth like that should work

    \end{itemize}
\end{enumerate}

\subsubsection{Server-side}

> The speaker server-side is responsible for enabling the information flow, maintaining simulation concurrency concerning action costs, updating the game state, and logging actions for monitoring. Notable functions are \texttt{updateRules}, which implements the concurrency checks and logic for updating the rules in play, and \texttt{RunVote}, which interacts with the voting system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server-side of the legislative branch is responsible for enabling the information flow, maintaining simulation concurrency concerning action costs, updating the game state and logging actions for monitoring. Notable functions are \texttt{updateRules}, which implements the concurrency checks and logic for updating the rules in play, and \texttt{RunVote}, which interacts with the voting system.
```

    \item The required information from agents or other roles is obtained. This information includes \emph{allocation requests}, \emph{private pool resource reports} and \emph{rules} proposed by the islands.
    \item This information is aggregated into a format accepted by the interface of presidential functions (usually in form $map[agent] \xrightarrow[]{} information$).
    \item Presidential function is called only on the currently residing President with aggregated information as inputs.

>     \item The outcome of the presidential function call is processed. This includes updating the game state, logging information for monitoring, subtracting action costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item The outcome of the presidential function call is processed. This includes updating the game state, logging information for monitoring and subtracting the relevant action costs.
```

    \item The outcome of the action, or lack thereof, is passed to the members of the archipelago.
\end{enumerate}

\subsection{Legislative Branch}

> Similarly to the president the Speaker also has client-side functions which directly map to the Speaker powers described in \ref{sec:legislative}, as well as server-side functions which not only facilitate the implementation of these powers but also handle other functionality, such as the logging needed for monitoring and withdrawal of costs associated with the power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to the President, the Speaker also has client-side functions which directly map to the Speaker's powers described in Section~\ref{sec:legislative}, as well as server-side functions which not only facilitate the implementation of these powers but also handle other functionality, such as the logging needed for monitoring and withdrawal of costs associated with the power.
```

\subsubsection{Client-side}
The legislative branch functions can be divided into two categories:
\begin{enumerate}

> \item Speaker power functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item Legislative power functions:
```

    \begin{itemize}

>         \item \texttt{DecideAgenda} does not directly map to a power of the speaker, but it does aid the agents with keeping track of the rule propagated through the legislative branch functions. By changing the rule given to the agent in \texttt{DecideAgenda}, which is the same rule returned by the President in \texttt{PickRuleToVote}, they can alter the rule passed to them in \texttt{DecideVote} and \texttt{DecideAnnouncement}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item \texttt{DecideAgenda} does not directly map to the power of the Speaker, but it does aid the agents with keeping track of the rule propagated through the legislative branch functions. By changing the rule given to the agent in \texttt{DecideAgenda}, which is the same rule returned by the President in \texttt{PickRuleToVote}, they can alter the rule passed to them in \texttt{DecideVote} and \texttt{DecideAnnouncement}.
```
who is 'they' in the last sentence?? can you plz be more explicit :)

Reviewer: is it 'the Speaker'

Author: ```suggestion
        \item \texttt{DecideAgenda} does not directly map to any power of the Speaker, but it does aid the agents with keeping track of the rule propagated through the legislative branch functions. By changing the rule given to the agent in \texttt{DecideAgenda}, which is the same rule returned by the President in \texttt{PickRuleToVote}, agents can alter the rule passed to them in \texttt{DecideVote} and \texttt{DecideAnnouncement}.
```

        \item \texttt{DecideAnnouncement} enables the institutional power of declaring a result of a vote on rules. The information passed to the Speaker is the current rule in the agenda (as returned by \texttt{DecideAgenda}) and the result of the vote held. The Speaker returns the same type of information along with a boolean indicating whether the agent has chosen to act on this power. The rule returned by the Speaker along with the result returned by the Speaker is the information that is processed by the server and broadcasted to all the agents. This does not occur if the agent has chosen not to make a declaration as indicated by the returned boolean.
    \end{itemize}

> \item The accountability cycle and transfer-of-power functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item The accountability cycle and transfer-of-power functions are:
```

    \begin{itemize}
        \item \texttt{PaySpeaker} implements the power of the Speaker to pay the Judge its salary. 

>         \item \texttt{CallJudgeElection} implements the power of the Speaker to call an election for the transfer-of-power for the Judge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \item \texttt{CallJudgeElection} implements the power of the Speaker to call an election for the transfer-of-power for the Judge.
```
